
Shawn Murphy is a software architect, knowledge engineer, software
developer, development team leader, programming coach and trainer.
Working in government, industry and academia he has designed and built
large data-driven scientific, bibliographic, medical, collaborative,
e-commerce and publishing systems.

As founder of Nooron Collaboratory [ http://nooron.com ] he is
developing general purpose ontologically-driven software to support
collective cognitive workflows such as knowledge management; evidence
capture; candidate comparison; criterion elicitation; worldivew
articulation; sense-making; decision support; knowledge visualization;
rapid, semantic application development and user-contributable
everything.

In this context Shawn has been developing HuViz -- a scriptable,
interactive semantic visualization, navigation and (soon) authoring
component.  The HuViz work has been conducted in close cooperation
with, and supported by, the Orlando Project
[http://www.artsrn.ualberta.ca/orlando/ ] and, more recently, the
Canadian Writers Reseach Collaboratory [ https://cwrc.ca/ ]

Shawn is working to ensure that our software tools for discovering,
thinking, deciding and acting can co-evolve under the
software-supported pressure of ever-improving best practices, on the
theory that this is the "level of thinking" required for us to meet
the challenges of our time.  He is eager to meet others seeking to
make academic collaboration web scalable.


----

## Bone pile

* skynet v startrek
* democracy is not good at its job
* tracking provenance is a prerequisite for tracking learning and debate
* Databases store what we think we know but academics need to manage the
  very process by which we establish that knowning -- through learning,
  debate and the evaluation of evidence and opinion.
